SOG received a Presidential Unit Citation, awarded to units that displayed extraordinary heroism in combat, on April 5th of 2001- 29 years after SOG was disbanded.
SOG members received over 2,000 individual awards for heroism- including 10 Medals of Honor and 23 Distinguished Service Crosses.
Several SOG veterans went on to become founding members of Delta Force, America’s elite counter-terrorism unit.
SOG operated its own private navy using junks and speed boats in operations along the North Vietnamese coastline.
SOG personnel came from all branches of the U.S. military- but the bulk of the personnel came from Army Special Forces (aka "the Green Berets").
SOG missions were authorized at the highest levels of the government- with approval coming directly from the White House and the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
In order to keep SOG's existence secret, its operating budget was hidden in the Navy's annual budget.
Two famous World War Two commandos, Donald Blackburn and John Singlaub, at one time were in command of SOG.
SOG recon teams carried a wide variety of weapons and equipment- from bow and arrows to a gyrojet pistol.
SOG recon teams from Command and Control North (CCN) and Command and Control Central (CCC) were primarily named after U.S. states (i.e. RT Minnesota, RT California, etc.) and snake species (i.e. RT Rattler, RT Anaconda, etc.).
SOG recon teams from Command and Control South (CCS) were primarily named after implements and tools (i.e. RT Fork, RT Hammer, etc.).
SOG recon teams operating along the Ho Chi Minh Trail were so effective that the North Vietnamese created specially-trained units to track down and destroy SOG recon teams.
14 SOG recon teams disappeared without a trace and 10 teams were overrun and wiped out during operations along the Ho Chi Minh Trail throughout the war. The fate of these heroes remains a mystery to this day.
57 American SOG cross-border personnel are listed as MIA. Their fate is unknown to this day.
Special Operations legend Dick Meadows was the only man to participate in SOG cross border operations, the Son Tay prison raid and the Iranian Embassy rescue attempt. Meadows was also a founding member of Delta Force.
A SOG recon team became the first soldiers to perform a HALO (High Altitude Low Open) jump into a combat zone during a SOG cross border operation in 1970.
SOG veteran Robert Howard is America's most highly decorated serviceman who won a Medal of Honor for his heroic actions during a SOG cross-border operation.
John Plaster, author of SOG and Secret Commandos, served on five different recon teams during his three tours in SOG; RT Illinois, RT Washington, RT Hawaii, RT California and RT New Mexico.
SOG's area of operation included North Vietnam, Laos, Cambodia, and South Vietnam.
SOG operated three remote radio relay sites ("Sledge Hammer" in Cambodia, "Leghorn" in Laos and "Klondike" in the tri-border area where Laos, Cambodia and South Vietnam met) that were the life-line for recon teams in the field.
A "covey rider" was an experienced SOG recon man who flew in a FAC aircraft in support of SOG recon teams during cross-border operations. It was his job to help direct air strikes and helicopter evacuations for SOG teams under enemy attack.
Members of the Army's 5th Special Forces Group (Airborne) made up the bulk of Special Forces personnel assigned to SOG.
The SOG patch was designed by an unknown SOG member. Its design encompasses the involvement of Army Special Forces (symbolized by the green beret), the Air Force (symbolized by the Air Force wings) Navy and Marine Corps (symbolized by the anchor).
Two heroic South Vietnamese helicopter pilots assigned to SOG, known only as "Cowboy" and "Mustachio", were responsible for saving the lives of numerous SOG recon teams while under fire by the enemy. 
SOG teams wore a wide variety of uniforms depending on personal preference. SOG recon teams were very unconventional and modified existing gear to fit their needs. 
SOG teams did not wear traditional camouflaged uniforms in the field. The most common uniform were standard jungle fatigues either dyed black or had vertical black stripes spray painted on them.
Several SOG recon teams wore NVA uniforms and carried enemy weapons while on operations along the Ho Chi Minh Trail in order to deceive the enemy if the team was sighted.
SOG teams carried over 400 rounds of CAR-15 ammunition on recon missions in belt pouches normally used to carry canteens. 
SOG recon team leaders were referred to as "One-Zeros" while the assistant team leader was referred to as "One-One". Only the most experienced and skilled recon men became "One-Zeros". The team radio operator was known as "One-Two".
American casualties (killed or wounded) in SOG at times exceeded 100 percent with every surviving American recon team member receiving at least one wound through direct combat with the enemy.
The weapon that came to be a symbol of SOG and Special Forces during the war was the CAR-15, the carbine version of the M-16 that offered a telescopic stock and shorter barrel. The CAR-15's compact size made it popular with many SOG recon teams.
Eldon Bargewell, a decorated SOG recon team leader during the Vietnam War later went on to command the Army's elite counter-terrorism unit, Delta Force.
Many of the recon techniques and tactics developed by SOG recon during the Vietnam War are still being taught today to a new generation of America's special operators.
In 1995, the government declassified some information on SOG operations during the Vietnam War but the majority still remains highly classified to this day.
On numerous occasions, SOG recon teams operating in Laos reported seeing and hearing enemy helicopters operating from hidden bases along the Ho Chi Minh Trail.
The North Vietnamese employed tracker teams with dogs, surveillance teams and specially-trained counter-recon team units to locate SOG recon teams. Once a SOG team was located, the North Vietnamese would bring overwhelming force into an attack against the team in an attempt to eliminate it quickly.
SOG recon teams developed their own unauthorized team patches which were sewn inside team member berets or uniform pockets at base camps between missions. Common patch themes included coffins, dripping blood, skulls, bats, snakes, dragons, grim reapers and explosions.
SOG ground elements (OP-35) were broken into three operational "command and control" (or C & C) groups; Command and Control North (CCN) was responsible for cross border operation primarily in Laos and along the DMZ separating North and South Vietnam, Command and Control Central (CCC) handled cross border operations into southern Laos and Northern Cambodia while Command and Control South (CCS) was tasked with cross border operations into Central and Southern Cambodia. 
SOG recon teams accumulated the largest "kill ratio" of any military unit in American military history; 100 enemy soldiers killed for every American lost in combat. 
SOG missions included prisoner snatches, wiretapping of enemy communication lines, location and destruction of enemy rest stops, truck parks and supply depots, observation of enemy troop and supply movement along trails and roads, long-range reconnaissance operations, directing air strikes against enemy ground assets, the rescue of downed American pilots behind enemy lines, Bomb Damage Assessment (BDA), ambush and harassment of enemy units operating in Laos and Cambodia.
SOG recon team leaders were given nicknames which were used to validate radio transmissions (i.e. "Mad Dog", "Stick", "Hillbilly", "Slats", "Baby-san", "Cowboy", "Plastic Man", etc.). These nicknames were frequently based upon a team leader's appearance, place of origin, accent, name or personality.
A chrome-plated Browning 9mm pistol was awarded to SOG's most accomplished One-Zeros. Roughly 50 of these rare awards were ever presented due to the high casualty rate in SOG recon teams.
Besides small recon teams, SOG also employed company-sized “Hatchet Force” units which were used to exploit targets too large for a recon team to attack or assist in evacuating a recon team under heavy enemy assault.
Legendary Project Omega and CCS recon team leader Jerry "Mad Dog" Shriver disappeared during the SOG assault on the NVA/VC Cambodian headquarters in 1969. Shriver was last seen leading a charge into an enemy position that had pinned down other members of the SOG attack force.
During the Vietnam War numerous wild and humorous incidents were attributed to SOG's Walter Shumate who eventually became the first sergeant major in Delta Force when that unit was formed after the war.
Thomas Norris, a Navy SEAL serving in SOG, won the Medal of Honor during the famous BAT-21 rescue deep within enemy controlled territory in 1972.
SOG recon team leader George Sisler won the Medal of Honor in 1967 after he gave his life to save his teammates when his team came under attack by a company of NVA soldiers. Sisler single-handedly assaulted the enemy positions and broke the enemy attack before he was mortally wounded. In 1998 the U.S. Navy named a ship in his honor.
Although long retired from active military service, dozens of SOG recon veterans are serving today in America's war against terror around the globe.